# RR_HOH_BLE

## About Hand of Hope

The Hand of Hope (HOH) is a therapy device (exoskeleton) used for neuromuscular rehabilitation of the hand and forearm. The HOH system has two series of models: the Active models series and the Passive models series. The Active models can provide biofeedback training exercises as well as stretching exercises. The Passive models can provide stretching exercises only.

For the Active models, HOH can function as a biofeedback device where surface electromyography (sEMG) electrodes depict voluntary muscle activation. The depicted signals are processed and simplified, and can be seen by a convenient presentation of visual feedback. The sEMG readout enables patients to monitor the fundamental neuromuscular functional state. Therefore, impairment, functional limitation and impaired volitional movement due to stroke or other neurologic or orthopaedic diseases can be easily presented and utilized by a sensory signal. Patient’s attention is drawn to the task through a visually displayed sEMG signal and consequently used for the initiation of the motor task. This biofeedback mechanism promotes motor learning via interactive use. In particular, stroke is one of the leading causes of adult disability, and hand rehabilitation after stroke is a very challenging part thereof. However, it is well known that sensory signals such as visual sensory inputs reach the motor cortex and modulate motor cortex function and excitability, and therefore can improve motor learning. Since active participation and initiation of the movement is the key to success, using the biofeedback system, HOH motivates patients to actively interact with the system during an sEMG controlled task-related training regime.

For both Active models and Passive models, HOH can function as a stretching device that can provide continuous passive movement (CPM) to the spastic hand/finger muscles to help relieves joint stiffness. The enhanced functional status after receiving CPM could provide a therapeutic window of opportunity for the therapist to exploit the residual motor joint functions of the patient to attain better rehabilitation outcomes. Due to neuromuscular disorder such as stroke, the disruption in motor control could lead to the imbalance of the inhibitory and excitatory signals sent to the muscles, causing some muscles to contract involuntarily. This could stiffen and effectively lock the affected body joints in place. Depending on the severity of muscle spasticity, some patients could develop abnormal synergy patterns that could greatly affect their rehabilitation effectiveness and quality of life. To relieve muscle spasticity through gentle repetitive hand/finger stretching, the stiff joint could be mobilized to help ease tightness, prevent muscles from shortening and contracture, and maintain the joint range of motion. These repeated movement could also promote circulation to reduce swollen joints.


